[Music]
hello there good morning welcome to
breakfast with naga manchetti and john k
our headlines today the chancellor warns
britain's finances face
enormous strains ahead of this week's
budget
the funeral of captain sir tom moore
will be held today the second world war
veteran who raised tens of millions of
pounds
for the nhs good morning wales have the
six nations triple crown in their sights
they'll win it
if they can beat a lackluster england in
cardiff this afternoon
and we're stepping into the weekend in
the company of high pressure that will
deliver plenty of sunny spells
and a bit of blue sky for many of us not
everyone however with some missed and
fog patches forming over the next couple
of days i'll be back with all the
details
[Music]
good morning it's saturday the 27th of
february our top story is the chancellor
has said he'll use wednesday's budget to
level with the british people about the
state of the economy
in the wake of the coronavirus crisis in
an interview with the financial times
today rishi susana
warns that the uk has been left exposed
because of its high
debt levels but he acknowledges that
he'll need to keep
spending for the time being to support
jobs our business reporter ramzan kamali
reports
with government spending heading towards
300 billion pounds to deal with the
pandemic
the unemployment rate hitting its
highest level in five years
and the uk economy shrinking almost 10
percent in 2020
all eyes will be on the chancellor next
week when he delivers his budget on
wednesday
one area that will be in focus will be
the housing market
over the past year banks have tightened
their lending criteria
for those attempting to get onto the
property ladder but now the government
is aiming to make that
easier so from april buyers in the uk
will only need a five percent deposit to
take out a mortgage for a property worth
up to six hundred thousand pounds
the government will offer lenders the
guarantee they need to provide mortgages
that cover the other 95 percent
the scheme is based on the help to buy
scheme launched back in 2013
which helped more than 100 000 people
buy homes but there were concerns that
it pushed up house prices
the chancellor will also make changes to
england's existing traineeship schemes
as part of next week's budget
a new flexi job apprenticeship will
enable participants to work with a
number of different employers in one
sector
and the government will pay three
thousand pounds to firms who take on an
apprentice
regardless of age a lot of small
businesses
who obviously have struggled
significantly throughout the corporate
crisis
this opportunity of additional uh
financial incentives to
support new people into their business
can only help them move forward
speaking in the financial times mr sunak
acknowledged that there was an immediate
need to spend to deal with the
challenges of the pandemic
but warned that britain's finances were
exposed
because of the level of debt the country
has taken on
labour said that now is not the time for
tax rises on families
or businesses ramzan kharmali bbc news
the funeral will take place today of
captain satom moore who raised millions
of pounds for nhs charities
by walking laps of his garden at the
start of the pandemic
he died earlier this month month aged
100.
the ceremony will include an raf fly
past and
a ceremonial guard john mcguire has more
they were there by his side when he made
that most
famous journey i mean i'm surrounded by
the right sorts of people
so well yes i feel fine i hope you're
all feeling fine too
and today they're with him once again as
he makes
his final journey soldiers from the
modern equivalent of captain sir tom
moore's wartime regiment
will provide full military honours for
his funeral
it's an absolute honour to be here i met
captain sir tom moore
last year when he was to mark his 100th
lap
in his garden as you know you were there
so i end over the role of the regimental
start major
next week so this is my actual final act
and i could not have thought i could not
think of a more honorable way to
to finish my 10 years at the regiment
i'll start made of the york's regiment
the preparations have been painstaking
to ensure a suitable send-off it will be
a small
family funeral and the public have been
asked to stay away
due to the pandemic before his death
he'd been very clear
about his wishes for today and i said so
i think your idea of the cardboard
coffin and using the cheapest funeral
that you could is probably not going to
cut it these days
because he was always like don't waste
your money once you're gone you're gone
remember this is the man
and i said i just don't think that's
going to work and he went what have you
got in mind
and i said i think it's not what i've
got in mind i think that you should
think what you really want
we've kept to his wishes we've kept it
simple there's eight of us
you can imagine how many people there
could have been
um you know in in these times he's met
lots of new friends
and lots of new supporters we've
created a funeral that i think that he
would look down on
and say good job girls an aircraft he
would have seen overhead in wartime
burma the dakota
from the battle of britain memorial
flight will fly past at midday
to mark the beginning of the ceremony
followed
by a 14-gun the service itself will hear
tributes from his daughters
and grandchildren
[Music]
and the music will include his
record-breaking duet with michael
[Music]
has recorded a version of the song smile
especially for today's funeral
and on his coffin draped with the union
flag will be his knighthood medal
his campaign medals and a replica of his
military cap
also a specially commissioned officer's
sword
on one side engraved with his regiment's
motto
fortune favors the brave and on the
other
what else but his most memorable words
tomorrow will be a good day john mcguire
bbc news
bedfordshire a man that touched
so many people over the past year and
almost defined
f you know being kind to one another
during the pandemic
so he obviously when he died so many
people reacted and felt you know quite a
personal loss as well and of course
lots of people have lost loved ones but
just the hard work he put in with his
family and put himself out there
remember when john um interviewed hannah
and just said thank you for lending
yeah that's totally spot-on yeah yeah
that's john mcguire will be uh reporting
for us
later this morning obviously it can't be
a big funeral the kind of funeral that
he would have got in normal times just a
small family funeral but john's been
working with the family and
uh speaking to them and we'll hear more
from him later
time now is seven minutes past six the
former
first minister of scotland alex salmond
has said there is
no doubt that his successor nicola
sturgeon broke the rules governing the
behaviour of ministers
he made the claim during his long-waited
appearance at an inquiry into the
scottish government's mishandling of
sexual harassment allegations against
him
he gave evidence for about six hours but
stopped short of calling for the first
minister's resignation
nicholas sturgeon denies the claims made
against her
ministers have moved to reassure parents
that it's safe for their children to
return to the classroom with a new
campaign that's launching
in england today the back to school
advertisements will highlight extra
measures
such as testing and masks being
introduced ahead of schools reopening
fully
on march the 8th in england here's more
from our correspondent john donaldson
these are some of the reasons the
government in england think it's
important to get young people back to
school
teachers unions though are urging
caution
our view is that it is the right time to
go back into school we would have had a
phased return because that's what we see
in wales in northern ireland in scotland
we we haven't really seen the evidence
for why it's so different in
england on the other hand this is all
about managing risks
and the risks of children not being at
school are very significant as well so
yes it is the right time but let's be
realistic and recognize
that it must be done with a real sense
of honesty and of caution
and the unions are unhappy that the
government has rejected the idea
of prioritizing teachers for
vaccinations
instead age will continue to be the main
factor
driving the vaccination timetable the
government has pledged to offer the
vaccine to
everyone over 50 as well as those in
specific at-risk groups by mid-april
it will then work down through the age
groups starting with those aged
40-49 then 30-39
and finally 18-29 aiming that all adults
should have been offered at least a
first jab
by the end of july but despite the rapid
progress on jabs
at the latest downing street briefing a
warning not to become complacent
it's a bit like being three nil up in a
game and thinking well we can't possibly
lose this now
but how many times have you seen the
other side take it 4-3
do not wreck this now it is too early to
relax
and as we head towards spring although
cases are continuing to fall on a
national level
in one in five local council areas
infections have actually started to
slightly rise again
john donason bbc news
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news